# Chapter 1

This is the first chapter of the book. The code compiled is a hello world program in C language.

## Create the project

1.Create a new project `character_count` in the folder `chapter_1`

2.Add a new file `character_count.c` in a folder called src with the following content:

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include <ctype.h>

int main() {
    int character_count = 0;
    int c;

    while((c = getchar()) != EOF) {
            ++character_count;
    }
    printf("Character count: %d\n", character_count);
    return 0;
}

```

3.Add another folder called include for any header files you may need.

## Compile the project

1.To compile the project make a build directory in the project root directory. This is where the Makefile will be generated. The Makefile will be generated by Cmake.

```bash
mkdir build
```

2.Move to the build directory:

```bash
cd build
```

3.After this, run the following command:

```bash
Cmake build ../<target-directory>
```

This will produce an output that will looks something like this

```bash
-- Configuring done (0.0s)
-- Generating done (0.0s)
-- Build files have been written to: /Users/sudofr/Documents/Projects/Coding/the_c_programming_language/build
```

4.Run the following command to compile the project:

```bash
make
```

5.This produces the executable file `hello` in the build directory. The name of the executable is same as what was suggested by the Cmake *add_executable* command. Run the following command to execute the program:

```bash
./temperature
```

6.The project is now compiled and executed successfully.

## Conclusion

Although this is a simple program, it is a good starting point for learning C programming. The next chapter will cover more advanced topics.

We have successfully compiled and executed the hello world program in C language. We used Cmake to generate the Makefile and then compiled the project using the Makefile. The output of the program was `Hello, World!`. Going the trouble of setting up the project and compiling it will help you understand the basics of C programming and how to compile a project using Cmake and Makefile.

&copy; 2025 The Short Epoch LLC. All rights reserved.
